---
layout: default
title: Research Summaries 1 and 2
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)

##Assignment Overview 
Write a one-page (8.5x11) paper summarizing a specific source you discovered in your research. Put your name in the top left hand corner and list the author's name and the full citation information of the piece you're summarizing; set margins at 1 inch, spacing at single, and font at 12 pt.  Do not exceed a page in length. This should be about 500 words. 

##Specifics
Offer a concise but thorough summary of the position this source is advocating. Stay as close to the text as possible, quoting the author's exact words at times to tie both you and your readers to the original text itself—cite page numbers for any quotations in parentheses after the quote (just the page numbers; no pp. or p.). Your aim is to hand over to your readers your understanding of WHAT this text is arguing for. Phrases such as "Smith says/notes/states," or "according to Bell," etc. will help you designate what is called intellectual property. You will not have room to cover all the points an author makes, so you will need to synthesize the information for us, tell us what position the author is advocating and then offer quotes from the text itself to demonstrate (to show us) that the author is arguing what you say s/he's arguing. Do not offer your own comments, opinions, or arguments about what the text says, and do not offer a rhetorical analysis of the writing. Stick to content: what is the author saying in this text? What position is s/he advocating?

##Rubric for Research Summary Two: 
[Download](RSRubric.pdf)

##Checklist for Research Summary One

This checklist lists the three categories on which your research summary will be evaluated. The "summary" category will be given the most weight, followed by the "source" category and finally the "format and citation."

*Summary*  

* Comprehensive  
* Accurate  
* Supported with quotes  
* Synthesized (determining and organizing summary by most important elements of source argument; not an enumerative summary e.g. "Source says first point, second point, third point")  
* Free of RS writer's opinion  

*Source*  

* Viewpoint, not background *(no viewpoint source = C- or lower)*  
* Complex enough/long enough to sustain a one-page RS  
* Credible authors  
* Relevant to topics in Sandel  

*Page Format and Citations*

* One page (approx. 300 words)  
* Proper citation format  
* Writing relatively free from grammatical error  
* Appropriate font size, line spacing, kerning, etc.   









































