---
layout: default
title: Research Summary 4
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)

##Assignment Overview

Essay 2 involves the rhetorical analysis of a text related to your controversy. For this assignment, you will turn the practice of "rhetorical analysis" back on yourself.  

This exercise involves three parts. First, you will create a one-page visual that advertises a product to a particular audience. Second, you will write a brief rhetorical analysis of an advertisement created by another person. And third, you will read the analysis another student has written about your advertisement and reflect on how effectively you marketed your product and how it felt to have a work of your own rhetorically analyzed.  

##Specifics

###Part 1: Create Your Advertisement (33%)
You work for a team of successful advertisers, and you have been hired by the company Bevo to promote a new product about which it is extremely proud. Bevo will pay you lots of money, but only if it agrees that your strategies suit the product and its intended audience. You will be given your assigned product and audience in class.  

Advertisements should utilize most of a normal printer page (8.5”x11”), and though they may be hand-drawn and/or typed, they must be neat and professional-looking. Include the brand’s name (Bevo) as well as any additional information viewers will need to determine whether or not to purchase the product (price, size, available colors, etc.). Utilize  visual design and rhetorical tactics, including color, object placement, emotions, and/or humor. Make decisions based on what you think will best influence your audience. Please do not let your viewer know exactly what audience you’re designing for, as that should be inferred from the ad itself, but do include your name on the back.

###Part 2: Analyze Another Student’s Advertisement (33%):
In this step of the assignment, your job is to compose a short analysis of one of your classmates’ advertisements. The essay should answer the question: what strategies does the advertisement use to persuade its audience, and why?  
This essay should be about 250-300 words. 

1.	Introduction: Identify the product and the intended audience. If you are not sure about the latter, make an educated guess (and do not worry too much about whether you are correct). Include a thesis statement that describes the key persuasive strategies used in the advertisement, and the intended purpose of those strategies. 

2.	Body/Analysis: In the next paragraph or two, summarize the advertisement, describing how it looks, etc. Offer an analysis of the characteristics that you described in order to explain how those characteristics are used as persuasive devices. 

3.	Conclusion: Ultimately, do you consider the advertisement an effective argument? Will it likely reach what you believe is its intended audience? How could the advertisement be improved? (Remember that the ad’s creator will read your comments, so if you are not sure it is effective, please state your criticism in as diplomatic a manner as possible.)

###Part 3: Write Your Reflection (33%):
After you have read your classmate’s analysis of the advertisement you have created, write a short essay in which you reflect on what you have learned (and felt) during the activity. Did the classmate accurately identify the audience for whom you designed the advertisement? Did s/he pick up on the rhetorical techniques you intended to influence that audience? Did s/he observe anything about your advertisement that surprised you? Do you agree with his/her assessment of your advertisement’s effectiveness? What have you learned from this activity?

Your reflection should be about 150 words.




