---
layout: default
title: Research Summary 4
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)  
[Back to "Schedule"](schedule.html)  

##Assignment Overview

For essay 2, you will be asked to analyze the persuasive strategies of a single text that takes a position on your controversy. For this assignment, your task is to write a 400-500 word paper in which you examine the author, bias, context, and style of your chosen text.

Note that for our purposes, a "text" can be loosely defined as any persuasive effort that can be interpreted.  A "text" may be a print article (such as an opinion column in a newspaper).  It may also be a blog entry, a video, a commercial, an image, or a web-page.  You should select a text that makes a clear argument--a text that very clearly asks the audience to believe, feel, or do something. 

##Specifics

This research summary must include three sections:  

In the first section of your summary, briefly introduce your controversy and the article. Explain the article's position.  

In the second part of your summary, analyze the article's context by addressing the following aspects of the text:
* Author: who is the author? What factors of the author's biography influence your understanding of the author's *bias* and *credibility*?  
* Forum: the forum is the place where the article was published - the newspaper, magazine, website, etc. What do you know about the forum of this article? Is it academic, popular, non-fiction, creative? Is it owned by a corporation, a non-profit, a small business, or is it just a blog? What kind of people read it? What other kinds of articles does it publish? How does this inform your understanding of the article's position?
* Style: Is it journalistic, scientific, chatty, formal, informal, first person, third person? How does your analysis of the style inform your understanding of the article's position?  
Note that you will be most successful if you are judicious in the information you put here. Rather than simply listing everything you know about the author, or the forum, use that information to make a larger point about bias, credibility, or persuasion.  

In your conclusion, sum up your analysis by explaining how your analysis of the author, forum, and style together helps you to understanding the position that the article is taking.  

##Evaluation
###Research Content
* Comprehensive
* Accurate  
* Supported with quotes  
* Synthesized (determining and organizing summary by most important elements of source argument; not an enumerative summary e.g. "Source says first point, second point, third point")  
* Analytic, rather than just descriptive.  

###Writing  
* Clear, easy to follow
* Concise language
* Correct spelling & grammar

###Parameters
**Note: research summaries that do not meet these parameters will not be accepted.**
* 400-500 words
* Single spaced
* Times New Roman or Garamond, 12pt font
* MSWord Compatible (.doc, .docx, .rtf, .otd)
* Upper left corner: Name, date, RHE306
* Title in center
* MLA citation of article below title