---
layout: default
title: Research Summaries 6
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)

##Assignment Overview

In Essay 3, your task will be to write a position article for a magazine, journal, newspaper, or blog of your choice. For RS6, write a one-page paper analyzing the writing style of your chosen medium. Read two position articles (on any subject) from the forum of your choice and identify the style of the forum. Then describe if and how the authors establish credibility, establish bias, and use rhetorical strategies. Include the citations for your two sources, in MLA format, at the end.

Put your name in the top left hand corner; set margins at 1 inch, spacing at single, and font at 12 pt. List full citation information of the pieces you're analyzing at the end. Do not exceed a page in length. This should be about 500 words.

###Choosing a medium: 

You should choose a medium that you think could theoretically host an essay such as the one you plan to write. It should be a popular web or print medium that often prints opinion articles – the “opinion” section of a newspaper like the Wall Street Journal or the New York Times; the “blog” section of the Huffington Post or of Fox News; a magazine like Wired, Time, People; etc.

##Specifics

This essay should have three parts. Give most of your attention to the second and third part.

In the first part, briefly introduce the two articles and the publication source. What is the style of writing used by authors in this forum? Address the word choices, sentence structures, paragraph structures, and overall structures. You can use the style worksheet as a guide, but you do not need to answer every question on that worksheet.

In the second part, describe how the two articles show bias and credibility. Is the author's credibility explicit or implicit? You can evaluate this by determining whether the authors state their credentials (explicit) or use citations and anecdotes to exhibit knowledge (implicit). Is the bias weak (hidden from the text) or strong (explicitly shown in the text)? You can evaluate this by considering whether the authors explicitly state their bias, and whether the authors use biased language (hyperbole, emotional language).

In the third part, describe the rhetorical strategies used by these two authors. How do they construct their emotional and logical appeals? (Do they use lists of statistics? Do they tell long emotional anecdotes?) Is their argument primarily pathos-based or logos-based?
